Welcome back! We've covered
a lot of information so far.
I hope you're having as much fun
exploring the role
of security as I am!
We've explored what
organizational assets
are and why they
need protection.
You've also gotten a sense of
the tremendous amount of
assets security teams protect.
Previously, we began
examining security
asset management and
the importance of
keeping track of
everything that's important
to an organization.
Security teams classify
assets based on value.
Next, let's expand
our security mindset and
think about this question.
What exactly is valuable
about an asset?
These days, the answer
is often information.
Most information is
in a digital form.
We call this data.
Data is information
that is translated,
processed, or stored
by a computer.
We live in a connected world.
Billions of devices around
the world are linked to
the internet and are exchanging
data with each
other all the time.
In fact, millions of pieces of
data are being passed to
your device right now!
When compared to
physical assets,
digital assets have
additional challenges.
What you need to understand
is that protecting data
depends on where that data
is and what it's doing.
Security teams protect data in
three different states: in use,
in transit, and at rest.
Let's investigate this
idea in greater detail.
Data in use is data being
accessed by one or more users.
Imagine being at a
park with your laptop.
It's a nice sunny day, and you
stop at a bench to
check your email.
This is an example
of data in use.
As soon as you log in,
your inbox is considered
to be in use.
Next, is data in transit.
Data in transit is data
traveling from one point to
another. While you're
signed into your account,
a message from one of
your friends appears.
They sent you an
interesting article
about the growing
security industry.
You decide to reply,
thanking them for
sending this to you.
When you click send,
this is now an example
of data in transit.
Finally, there's data at rest.
Data at rest is data not
currently being accessed.
In this state, data is typically
stored on a physical device.
An example of data at
rest would be when you
finish checking your email
and close your laptop.
You then decide to pack up
and go to a nearby
cafe for breakfast.
As you make your way from
the park towards the cafe,
the data in your
laptop is at rest.
So now that we understand
these states of data,
let's connect this back
to asset management.
Earlier, I mentioned that
information is one of
the most valuable assets
that companies can have.
Information security,
or InfoSec, is
the practice of keeping data in
all states away from
unauthorized users.
Weak information security
is a serious problem.
It can lead to things
like identity theft,
financial loss, and
reputational damage.
These events have potential
to harm organizations,
their partners, and
their customers.
And there's more to consider in
your work as a security analyst.
As our digital world
continually changes,
we are adapting our
understanding of data at rest.
Physical devices like
our smartphones
more commonly store
data in the cloud,
meaning that our information
isn't necessarily at
rest just because our phone
is resting on a table.
We should always be mindful of
new vulnerabilities as our world
becomes increasingly connected.
Remember, protecting data
depends on where the data
is and what it's doing.
Keeping track of information
is part of the puzzle
that companies solve when
considering their security plan.
Understanding the
three states of data
enable security teams to analyze
risk and determine
an asset management plan
for different situations.